By Lachlan Campbell (@lachlanjc). 30 Jul 2019

---

A club leader asked me how to tell their principal they should found a Hack Club when there’s already a Girls Who Code club. Here’s what I wrote as advice for a conversation with an administrator.

> Hack Club is fundamentally different from all other clubs. It’s by the students, for the students. Even though we also do coding, we’re not anything like a CS class or the GWC curriculum. There aren’t lectures or homework—students teach themselves coding by building projects on their own, discovering how to code as they go. Everyone leaves every meeting with a new project finished.

- I think coding is an opportunity everyone should have, & Hack Club is inclusive of everyone. We’re beginners-oriented, all genders, all everything else.
- Make it personal. Coding/hackathons utterly changed my life, & brought me enormous agency. It changed my perspective to see all problems as solvable through creative solutions. This generation is facing problems like AI/automation & climate change like nothing in the history of the world—we need to build problem-solvers like never before. Hack Club is how that happens. Talk about that version for you.
- High school clubs are capitalism, & competing for members will result in 1) 2 better clubs & 2) way more students learning to code! “We’re starting this as an experiment in providing a really compelling experience. Maybe it’ll work, maybe it won’t, but I really want my classmates to get to have this experience.”
- There are well over 300 Hack Clubs around the world, we’re starting another right here at X high school!! A bunch of Hack Clubs in India have 400+ weekly members making projects winning government innovation awards & grants. A 14-year-old in the community from India just got a summer internship at a company in Silicon Valley building tools for new programmers. A club in the suburbs of Cincinnati, Ohio (#mason) has dozens of weekly members & ran Hack Chicago, a 250-person hackathon—the largest ever in the Midwest—last summer. A club in the middle of Pennsylvania (mine!) raised $15k in 1 month & organized a 24-hour high school learn-to-code event with over 110 attendees—like nothing else ever in the state. By starting a Hack Club, we’re joining thousands students all over the world innovating & creating opportunities in their communities. There’s nothing else like this.
- You’ll need to figure out the answer to this for your school, but do you have to register as a club? At my school once we had a teacher sponsor we didn’t really have to register (which wasn’t an option for various reasons) to meet. If you can, hold a few amazing meetings (or a year of them), then come back with “We had 50 people at our first meeting & 20 consistent members after that. Members have already launched dozens of their very own websites & learned a ton. Now we want to take this to the next level, & make it a lasting institution at the school.” Hard to argue with real results, & we can totally help out with getting you to those results.